<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  051 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Airbus Subsidies


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite or discuss assistance to Airbus Industrie by the
French, German, British or Spanish government(s), or will discuss a trade
dispute between Airbus or the European governments and a U.S. aircraft
producer, most likely Boeing Co. or McDonnell Douglas Corp., or the U.S.
government, over federal subsidies to Airbus.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Airbus Industrie

2. European aircraft consortium, Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm GmbH, British
   Aerospace PLC, Aerospatiale, Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A.
  
3. federal subsidies, government assistance, aid, loan, financing

4. trade dispute, trade controversy, trade tension

5. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) aircraft code

6. Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG)

7. complaint, objection

8. retaliation, anti-dumping duty petition, countervailing duty petition,
   sanctions


<fac> Factor(s):



<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  052 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  South African Sanctions


<desc> Description:

Document discusses sanctions against South Africa.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses international sanctions against South Africa.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any aspect of South African sanctions, such
as: sanctions declared/proposed by a country against the South African
government in response to its apartheid policy, or in response to pressure by
an individual, organization or another country; international sanctions
against Pretoria imposed by the United Nations; the effects of sanctions
against S. Africa; opposition to sanctions; or, compliance with sanctions by a
company.  The document will identify the sanctions instituted or being
considered, e.g., corporate disinvestment, trade ban, academic boycott, arms
embargo.


<con> Concept(s):

1. sanctions, international sanctions, economic sanctions

2. corporate exodus, corporate disinvestment, stock divestiture, ban on new
   investment, trade ban, import ban on South African diamonds, U.N. arms
   embargo, curtailment of defense contracts, cutoff of nonmilitary goods,
   academic boycott, reduction of cultural ties

3. apartheid, white domination, racism

4. antiapartheid, black majority rule   

5. Pretoria


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  South Africa

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  053 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Leveraged Buyouts  


<desc> Description:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<smry> Summary:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a leveraged buyout (LBO) valued at or above 200
million dollars.  The LBO may be at any stage, e.g., considered, proposed,
pending, a fact.  The company (being) taken private must be identified.  The
offer may be expressed in dollars a share.


<con> Concept(s):

1. leveraged buyout, LBO

2. take private, go private

3. management-led leveraged buyout


<fac> Factor(s):
<price> Price:  >= 200 million dollars
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Leveraged Buyout (LBO) - Takeover of a company using borrowed funds, with the
target company's assets serving as security for the loans taken out by the
acquiring firm, which repays the loans out of the cash flow of the acquired
company or from the sale of the assets of the acquired firm.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description

<num> Number:  054 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Satellite Launch Contracts


<desc> Description:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will mention the signing of a contract or preliminary
agreement , or the making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial
satellite.


<con> Concept(s):

1. contract, agreement

2. launch vehicle, rocket, payload, satellite
 
3. launch services, commercial space industry, commercial launch industry

4. Arianespace, Martin Marietta, General Dynamics, McDonnell Douglas

5. Titan, Delta II, Atlas, Ariane, Proton


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  055 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Insider Trading


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss an insider-trading case, identifying the
accused/the defendant(s), as well as the government doing the investigation.
It will also mention at least one of the following specifics of the case: the
alleged illegal activity, whether charged with providing or using insider
information, possible conspirator's role in the scheme, the monetary amount of
illegal profit and of damage; if pronounced guilty, then the sentence terms,
e.g., monetary penalty (cash payment), time in prison, cooperation with the
government, probation, community service, being barred from the industry for a
certain time period.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider-trading case

2. insider-trading scheme, illegal insider-trading activity, illegal
   securities transactions, white-collar crime, securities-law violations

3. insider-trading investigation, insider-trading probe

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC

5. investment banking, investment banker, arbitrage, arbitrager, securities
   analyst

6. inside information, advance knowledge of corporate takeovers 

7. leaking information, misappropriating information, leaking word, leaking
   news, passing a tip

8. pre-bid market activity, takeover speculation, matched-book
   transaction


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Insider Trading - Dealing in shares with the advantage of inside information.
The owners of shares in a public company are all supposed to be equal - so if
one of them knows that the company is about to go broke before the others and
sells his shares while their price is still good, that is unfair.  In many
countries, including the U.S. and the U.K., it is also illegal.  However, it
is very difficult to prove that an investor is buying or selling shares on the
basis of inside information.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  056 


<dom> Domain:  International Finance


<title> Topic:  Prime (Lending) Rate Moves, Predictions


<desc> Description:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate
(national-level or major banks'), or will report a prime rate move by major
banks, in response to or in anticipation of a federal/national-level action,
such as a cut in the discount rate.


<con> Concept(s):

1. prime lending rate, prime rate, base rate, reference rate, minimum lending
   rate, bank rate, weekly bank rate

2. Federal Reserve Board, Bank of Canada, major commercial banks

3. foresee, expect, predict, speculate

4. move, increase, decrease, rise, decline, boost, cut 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  057 


<dom> Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title> Topic:  MCI


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss how MCI has been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss how MCI (Multiport Communications Interface) has
been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<narr> Narrative:
 
A relevant document will discuss the financial health of MCI Communications
Corp. since the breakup of the Bell System (AT&T and the seven regional Baby
Bells) in January 1984.  The status indicated may not necessarily be a direct
or indirect result of the breakup of the system and ensuing regulation and
deregulation of Ma Bell or of the restrictions placed upon the seven Bells; it
may result from any number of factors, such as advances in telecommunications
technology, MCI initiative, etc.  MCI's financial health may be reported
directly: a broad statement about its earnings or cash flow, or a report
containing financial data such as a quarterly report; or it may be reflected
by one or more of the following: credit ratings, share of customers, volume
growth, cuts in capital spending, $$ figure net loss, pre-tax charge,
analysts' or MCI's own forecast about how well they will be doing, or MCI's
response to price cuts that AT&T makes at its own initiative or under orders
from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), such as price reductions,
layoffs of employees out of a perceived need to cut costs, etc.  Daily OTC
trading stock market and monthly short interest reports are NOT relevant; the
inventory must be longer term, at least quarterly.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  MCI Communications Corp.

2.  Bell System breakup

3.  Federal Communications Commission, FCC

4.  regulation, deregulation

5.  profits, revenue, net income, net loss, write-downs

6.  NOT daily OTC trading, NOT monthly short interest


<fac> Factor(s):

Time:  after January 1984

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 

