<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  051 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Airbus Subsidies


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite or discuss assistance to Airbus Industrie by the
French, German, British or Spanish government(s), or will discuss a trade
dispute between Airbus or the European governments and a U.S. aircraft
producer, most likely Boeing Co. or McDonnell Douglas Corp., or the U.S.
government, over federal subsidies to Airbus.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Airbus Industrie

2. European aircraft consortium, Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm GmbH, British
   Aerospace PLC, Aerospatiale, Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A.
  
3. federal subsidies, government assistance, aid, loan, financing

4. trade dispute, trade controversy, trade tension

5. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) aircraft code

6. Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG)

7. complaint, objection

8. retaliation, anti-dumping duty petition, countervailing duty petition,
   sanctions


<fac> Factor(s):



<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  052 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  South African Sanctions


<desc> Description:

Document discusses sanctions against South Africa.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses international sanctions against South Africa.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any aspect of South African sanctions, such
as: sanctions declared/proposed by a country against the South African
government in response to its apartheid policy, or in response to pressure by
an individual, organization or another country; international sanctions
against Pretoria imposed by the United Nations; the effects of sanctions
against S. Africa; opposition to sanctions; or, compliance with sanctions by a
company.  The document will identify the sanctions instituted or being
considered, e.g., corporate disinvestment, trade ban, academic boycott, arms
embargo.


<con> Concept(s):

1. sanctions, international sanctions, economic sanctions

2. corporate exodus, corporate disinvestment, stock divestiture, ban on new
   investment, trade ban, import ban on South African diamonds, U.N. arms
   embargo, curtailment of defense contracts, cutoff of nonmilitary goods,
   academic boycott, reduction of cultural ties

3. apartheid, white domination, racism

4. antiapartheid, black majority rule   

5. Pretoria


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  South Africa

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  053 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Leveraged Buyouts  


<desc> Description:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<smry> Summary:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a leveraged buyout (LBO) valued at or above 200
million dollars.  The LBO may be at any stage, e.g., considered, proposed,
pending, a fact.  The company (being) taken private must be identified.  The
offer may be expressed in dollars a share.


<con> Concept(s):

1. leveraged buyout, LBO

2. take private, go private

3. management-led leveraged buyout


<fac> Factor(s):
<price> Price:  >= 200 million dollars
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Leveraged Buyout (LBO) - Takeover of a company using borrowed funds, with the
target company's assets serving as security for the loans taken out by the
acquiring firm, which repays the loans out of the cash flow of the acquired
company or from the sale of the assets of the acquired firm.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description

<num> Number:  054 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Satellite Launch Contracts


<desc> Description:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will mention the signing of a contract or preliminary
agreement , or the making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial
satellite.


<con> Concept(s):

1. contract, agreement

2. launch vehicle, rocket, payload, satellite
 
3. launch services, commercial space industry, commercial launch industry

4. Arianespace, Martin Marietta, General Dynamics, McDonnell Douglas

5. Titan, Delta II, Atlas, Ariane, Proton


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  055 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Insider Trading


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss an insider-trading case, identifying the
accused/the defendant(s), as well as the government doing the investigation.
It will also mention at least one of the following specifics of the case: the
alleged illegal activity, whether charged with providing or using insider
information, possible conspirator's role in the scheme, the monetary amount of
illegal profit and of damage; if pronounced guilty, then the sentence terms,
e.g., monetary penalty (cash payment), time in prison, cooperation with the
government, probation, community service, being barred from the industry for a
certain time period.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider-trading case

2. insider-trading scheme, illegal insider-trading activity, illegal
   securities transactions, white-collar crime, securities-law violations

3. insider-trading investigation, insider-trading probe

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC

5. investment banking, investment banker, arbitrage, arbitrager, securities
   analyst

6. inside information, advance knowledge of corporate takeovers 

7. leaking information, misappropriating information, leaking word, leaking
   news, passing a tip

8. pre-bid market activity, takeover speculation, matched-book
   transaction


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Insider Trading - Dealing in shares with the advantage of inside information.
The owners of shares in a public company are all supposed to be equal - so if
one of them knows that the company is about to go broke before the others and
sells his shares while their price is still good, that is unfair.  In many
countries, including the U.S. and the U.K., it is also illegal.  However, it
is very difficult to prove that an investor is buying or selling shares on the
basis of inside information.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  056 


<dom> Domain:  International Finance


<title> Topic:  Prime (Lending) Rate Moves, Predictions


<desc> Description:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate
(national-level or major banks'), or will report a prime rate move by major
banks, in response to or in anticipation of a federal/national-level action,
such as a cut in the discount rate.


<con> Concept(s):

1. prime lending rate, prime rate, base rate, reference rate, minimum lending
   rate, bank rate, weekly bank rate

2. Federal Reserve Board, Bank of Canada, major commercial banks

3. foresee, expect, predict, speculate

4. move, increase, decrease, rise, decline, boost, cut 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  057 


<dom> Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title> Topic:  MCI


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss how MCI has been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss how MCI (Multiport Communications Interface) has
been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<narr> Narrative:
 
A relevant document will discuss the financial health of MCI Communications
Corp. since the breakup of the Bell System (AT&T and the seven regional Baby
Bells) in January 1984.  The status indicated may not necessarily be a direct
or indirect result of the breakup of the system and ensuing regulation and
deregulation of Ma Bell or of the restrictions placed upon the seven Bells; it
may result from any number of factors, such as advances in telecommunications
technology, MCI initiative, etc.  MCI's financial health may be reported
directly: a broad statement about its earnings or cash flow, or a report
containing financial data such as a quarterly report; or it may be reflected
by one or more of the following: credit ratings, share of customers, volume
growth, cuts in capital spending, $$ figure net loss, pre-tax charge,
analysts' or MCI's own forecast about how well they will be doing, or MCI's
response to price cuts that AT&T makes at its own initiative or under orders
from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), such as price reductions,
layoffs of employees out of a perceived need to cut costs, etc.  Daily OTC
trading stock market and monthly short interest reports are NOT relevant; the
inventory must be longer term, at least quarterly.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  MCI Communications Corp.

2.  Bell System breakup

3.  Federal Communications Commission, FCC

4.  regulation, deregulation

5.  profits, revenue, net income, net loss, write-downs

6.  NOT daily OTC trading, NOT monthly short interest


<fac> Factor(s):

Time:  after January 1984

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  058


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Rail Strikes


<desc> Description:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will either report an impending rail strike, describing
the conditions which may lead to a strike, or will provide an update on an
ongoing strike.  To be relevant, the document will identify the location of
the strike or potential strike.  For an impending strike, the document will
report the status of negotiations, contract talks, etc. to enable an
assessment of the probability of a strike.  For an ongoing strike, the
document will report the length of the strike to the current date and the
status of negotiations or mediation.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  rail strike, picket, stoppage, lockout, walkout, wildcat

2.  rail union, negotiator, railroad, federal conciliator, brotherhood

3.  union proposal, talks, settlement, featherbedding, cost cutting

4.  working without a contract, expired contract, cooling off period


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

</fac>

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  059 


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Weather Related Fatalities


<desc> Description:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include the number of people killed and injured by
the weather event, as well as reporting the type of weather event and the
location of the event.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  lightning, avalanche, tornado, typhoon, hurricane, heat, heat wave, flood,
    snow, rain, downpour, blizzard, storm, freezing temperatures

2.  dead, killed, fatal, death, fatality, victim

3.  NOT man-made disasters, NOT war-induced famine

4.  NOT earthquakes, NOT volcanic eruptions


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  060 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Merit-Pay vs. Seniority


<desc> Description:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy over the
use of standards of performance to determine salary levels and incentive pay
as contrasted with determining pay solely on the basis of seniority or
longevity on the job.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy
over a change in the use of standards of performance to determine
salary levels and incentive pay as contrasted with determining pay
solely on the basis of seniority or longevity on the job.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name an employer (company, institution, or
governmental entity) which has announced a change in its policy regarding
merit vs. seniority in paying employees, or name an employee group (union or
lobbying group) which is protesting a change in merit vs. seniority status for
a particular employee group.  The change announced should be a move away from
one policy toward another, not an announcement of across-the-board cuts as a
cost-cutting measure.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  merit-pay, merit pay, performance, award program, bonus

2.  seniority, longevity, cost-of-living

3.  salary, pay, compensation, raise

4.  appraisal, evaluation, assessment, testing, career ladder, peer review,
    certifying


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  061 


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Israeli Role in Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss Israel's role in the Iran-Contra Affair.  Any
mention or hint of Israeli involvement in the scandal, e.g., selling arms to
Iran, suggesting diverting profits from sales of arms to Iran to Nicaraguan
insurgents, participating in diversion of funds to the Contras, kicking back
money to Iranian officials, kidnapping relatives of top Iranian officials by
the Mossad (Israeli intelligence service) to be exchanged for U.S. hostages in
Lebanon, is relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, initiative, controversy, scandal

2.  role of Israel, Israeli involvement

3.  Israeli intermediaries, middlemen, arms dealers, government officials

4.  David Kimche, Michael Ledeen, Jaacov Nimrodi


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 062


<dom> Domain:  Military


<title> Topic:  Military Coups D'etat


<desc> Description:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the country involved, the group responsible
for the coup or coup attempt, the target of the coup, and the motivation of
the coup plotters. It should NOT be about civilian government shake ups.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  coup d'etat, coup attempt, skirmish, revolt, mutiny

2.  oust, take charge, rebel, storm, surrender

3.  regime

4.  amnesty


<fac> Factor(s):

<Time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  063 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Machine Translation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a machine translation system which is being
developed or marketed in any country.  It will identify the developer or
vendor, name the system, and identify one or more features of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  machine translation system

2.  language, dictionary, font

3.  batch, interactive, process, user interface


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  064 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Hostage-Taking


<desc> Description:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report an attempt (successful or unsuccessful) to
seize a hostage for some political purpose, report on hostages currently held,
or report a current hostage release event.  The document will identify the
nationality of the victim, some identification of the perpetrators
(nationality or religion), and location where the hostage-taking occurred.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  kidnap, seize, hijack

2.  negotiate, trade, exchange, swap

3.  free, release

4.  retaliate

5.  captivity, terrorism

6.  captors, hostages, negotiator, victims


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  065


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Information Retrieval Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of information retrieval system.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will identify a new information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify an information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  information retrieval system

2.  storage, database, data, query


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  066 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Natural Language Processing


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a company or institution developing or
marketing a natural language processing technology, identify the technology,
and identify one or more features of the company's product.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  natural language processing

2.  translation, language, dictionary, font

3.  software applications


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  067 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Politically Motivated Civil Disturbances


<desc> Description:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the location of the disturbance, the identity
of the group causing the disturbance, the nature of the disturbance, the
identity of the group suppressing the disturbance and the political goals of
the protesters. It should NOT be about economically-motivated civil
disturbances and NOT be about a civil disturbance directed against a second
country.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  protest, unrest, demonstration, march, riot, clash, uprising, rally,
    boycott, sit-in

2.  students, agitators, dissidents

3.  police, riot police, troops, army, National Guard, government forces

4.  NOT economically-motivated


<fac> Factor(s):

<time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  068


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Health Hazards from Fine-Diameter Fibers


<desc> Description:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the type of fiber in question, and whether the
fiber has been determined to be harmful or is merely suspected of being
harmful.

<con> Concept(s):

1.  fine-diameter fibers, glass, ceramic, mineral-wool, asbestos, cellulose

2.  diminished lung capacity, cancer

3.  workplace safety, OSHA


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  069


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Attempts to Revive the SALT II Treaty


<desc> Description:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe an attempt to push the U.S. Administration
to adhere to the limits on weapons proposed in SALT II.  To be relevant the
document must identify what group is pushing the policy and what methods they
are using to influence the U.S. Administration.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  SALT II, treaty, ceiling, missiles

2.  House, Senate, President, Europe

3.  war, enemy, fight


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

SALT II - Treaty signed by Carter and Brezhnev in 1979 limiting the number of
several categories of strategic weapons which the Soviet Union and the U.S.
would build and deploy.  The treaty was never ratified by the U.S. Senate, and
expired in 1985.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  070 


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government


<title> Topic:  Surrogate Motherhood


<desc> Description:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report legal opinions, judgments, and decisions
regarding surrogate motherhood and the custody of any children which result
from surrogate motherhood.  To be relevant, a document must identify the case,
state the issues which are or were being decided and report at least one
ethical or legal question which arises from the case.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  surrogate, mothers, motherhood

2.  judge, lawyer, court, lawsuit, custody, hearing, opinion, finding


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):


</top>
 
<top>


<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  071


<dom>  Domain:  Military


<title>  Topic:  Border Incursions


<desc>  Description:

Document will report incursions by land, air, or water into the border area of
one country by military forces of a second country or a guerrilla group based
in a second country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report brief incursions by land, air, or water into the
border area of one country by military forces of a second country or a
guerrilla group based in a second country.


<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the invading country or group, name the invaded
country, and identify the target or goal of the attacking force.  The target
or goal must be a military objective. It should NOT be about a war or invasion
in which troops remain on foreign soil for a sustained engagement. 
It should NOT be about a territorial dispute or economic dispute (such as
fishing rights) which is being negotiated or argued by civilian groups.



<con>  Concept(s):

1.  rebels, refugees, soldiers, guerrillas

2.  raid, assault, skirmish, dispute, fighting, clash, retaliation

3.  border, frontier, ford, thalweg, air space, territorial limit

4.  NOT sustained engagement

5.  NOT fishing rights

<fac>  Factor(s):


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  072


<dom>  Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title>  Topic:  Demographic Shifts in the U.S.


<desc>  Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (state, county, city, town, or
geographical area) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the
shift is a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the
magnitude of the shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some impact on the economy of either the losing area, the
receiving area, or both.


<con>  Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  census


<fac>  Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>

 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  058


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Rail Strikes


<desc> Description:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will either report an impending rail strike, describing
the conditions which may lead to a strike, or will provide an update on an
ongoing strike.  To be relevant, the document will identify the location of
the strike or potential strike.  For an impending strike, the document will
report the status of negotiations, contract talks, etc. to enable an
assessment of the probability of a strike.  For an ongoing strike, the
document will report the length of the strike to the current date and the
status of negotiations or mediation.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  rail strike, picket, stoppage, lockout, walkout, wildcat

2.  rail union, negotiator, railroad, federal conciliator, brotherhood

3.  union proposal, talks, settlement, featherbedding, cost cutting

4.  working without a contract, expired contract, cooling off period


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

</fac>

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  059 


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Weather Related Fatalities


<desc> Description:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include the number of people killed and injured by
the weather event, as well as reporting the type of weather event and the
location of the event.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  lightning, avalanche, tornado, typhoon, hurricane, heat, heat wave, flood,
    snow, rain, downpour, blizzard, storm, freezing temperatures

2.  dead, killed, fatal, death, fatality, victim

3.  NOT man-made disasters, NOT war-induced famine

4.  NOT earthquakes, NOT volcanic eruptions


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  060 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Merit-Pay vs. Seniority


<desc> Description:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy over the
use of standards of performance to determine salary levels and incentive pay
as contrasted with determining pay solely on the basis of seniority or
longevity on the job.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy
over a change in the use of standards of performance to determine
salary levels and incentive pay as contrasted with determining pay
solely on the basis of seniority or longevity on the job.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name an employer (company, institution, or
governmental entity) which has announced a change in its policy regarding
merit vs. seniority in paying employees, or name an employee group (union or
lobbying group) which is protesting a change in merit vs. seniority status for
a particular employee group.  The change announced should be a move away from
one policy toward another, not an announcement of across-the-board cuts as a
cost-cutting measure.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  merit-pay, merit pay, performance, award program, bonus

2.  seniority, longevity, cost-of-living

3.  salary, pay, compensation, raise

4.  appraisal, evaluation, assessment, testing, career ladder, peer review,
    certifying


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  061 


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Israeli Role in Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss Israel's role in the Iran-Contra Affair.  Any
mention or hint of Israeli involvement in the scandal, e.g., selling arms to
Iran, suggesting diverting profits from sales of arms to Iran to Nicaraguan
insurgents, participating in diversion of funds to the Contras, kicking back
money to Iranian officials, kidnapping relatives of top Iranian officials by
the Mossad (Israeli intelligence service) to be exchanged for U.S. hostages in
Lebanon, is relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, initiative, controversy, scandal

2.  role of Israel, Israeli involvement

3.  Israeli intermediaries, middlemen, arms dealers, government officials

4.  David Kimche, Michael Ledeen, Jaacov Nimrodi


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 062


<dom> Domain:  Military


<title> Topic:  Military Coups D'etat


<desc> Description:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the country involved, the group responsible
for the coup or coup attempt, the target of the coup, and the motivation of
the coup plotters. It should NOT be about civilian government shake ups.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  coup d'etat, coup attempt, skirmish, revolt, mutiny

2.  oust, take charge, rebel, storm, surrender

3.  regime

4.  amnesty


<fac> Factor(s):

<Time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  063 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Machine Translation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a machine translation system which is being
developed or marketed in any country.  It will identify the developer or
vendor, name the system, and identify one or more features of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  machine translation system

2.  language, dictionary, font

3.  batch, interactive, process, user interface


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  064 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Hostage-Taking


<desc> Description:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report an attempt (successful or unsuccessful) to
seize a hostage for some political purpose, report on hostages currently held,
or report a current hostage release event.  The document will identify the
nationality of the victim, some identification of the perpetrators
(nationality or religion), and location where the hostage-taking occurred.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  kidnap, seize, hijack

2.  negotiate, trade, exchange, swap

3.  free, release

4.  retaliate

5.  captivity, terrorism

6.  captors, hostages, negotiator, victims


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  065


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Information Retrieval Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of information retrieval system.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will identify a new information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify an information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  information retrieval system

2.  storage, database, data, query


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  066 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Natural Language Processing


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a company or institution developing or
marketing a natural language processing technology, identify the technology,
and identify one or more features of the company's product.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  natural language processing

2.  translation, language, dictionary, font

3.  software applications


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  067 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Politically Motivated Civil Disturbances


<desc> Description:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the location of the disturbance, the identity
of the group causing the disturbance, the nature of the disturbance, the
identity of the group suppressing the disturbance and the political goals of
the protesters. It should NOT be about economically-motivated civil
disturbances and NOT be about a civil disturbance directed against a second
country.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  protest, unrest, demonstration, march, riot, clash, uprising, rally,
    boycott, sit-in

2.  students, agitators, dissidents

3.  police, riot police, troops, army, National Guard, government forces

4.  NOT economically-motivated


<fac> Factor(s):

<time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  068


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Health Hazards from Fine-Diameter Fibers


<desc> Description:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the type of fiber in question, and whether the
fiber has been determined to be harmful or is merely suspected of being
harmful.

<con> Concept(s):

1.  fine-diameter fibers, glass, ceramic, mineral-wool, asbestos, cellulose

2.  diminished lung capacity, cancer

3.  workplace safety, OSHA


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  069


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Attempts to Revive the SALT II Treaty


<desc> Description:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe an attempt to push the U.S. Administration
to adhere to the limits on weapons proposed in SALT II.  To be relevant the
document must identify what group is pushing the policy and what methods they
are using to influence the U.S. Administration.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  SALT II, treaty, ceiling, missiles

2.  House, Senate, President, Europe

3.  war, enemy, fight


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

SALT II - Treaty signed by Carter and Brezhnev in 1979 limiting the number of
several categories of strategic weapons which the Soviet Union and the U.S.
would build and deploy.  The treaty was never ratified by the U.S. Senate, and
expired in 1985.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  070 


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government


<title> Topic:  Surrogate Motherhood


<desc> Description:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report legal opinions, judgments, and decisions
regarding surrogate motherhood and the custody of any children which result
from surrogate motherhood.  To be relevant, a document must identify the case,
state the issues which are or were being decided and report at least one
ethical or legal question which arises from the case.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  surrogate, mothers, motherhood

2.  judge, lawyer, court, lawsuit, custody, hearing, opinion, finding


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):


</top>
 
<top>


<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  071


<dom>  Domain:  Military


<title>  Topic:  Border Incursions


<desc>  Description:

Document will report incursions by land, air, or water into the border area of
one country by military forces of a second country or a guerrilla group based
in a second country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report brief incursions by land, air, or water into the
border area of one country by military forces of a second country or a
guerrilla group based in a second country.


<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the invading country or group, name the invaded
country, and identify the target or goal of the attacking force.  The target
or goal must be a military objective. It should NOT be about a war or invasion
in which troops remain on foreign soil for a sustained engagement. 
It should NOT be about a territorial dispute or economic dispute (such as
fishing rights) which is being negotiated or argued by civilian groups.



<con>  Concept(s):

1.  rebels, refugees, soldiers, guerrillas

2.  raid, assault, skirmish, dispute, fighting, clash, retaliation

3.  border, frontier, ford, thalweg, air space, territorial limit

4.  NOT sustained engagement

5.  NOT fishing rights

<fac>  Factor(s):


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  072


<dom>  Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title>  Topic:  Demographic Shifts in the U.S.


<desc>  Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (state, county, city, town, or
geographical area) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the
shift is a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the
magnitude of the shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some impact on the economy of either the losing area, the
receiving area, or both.


<con>  Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  census


<fac>  Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>

